So, we're going to do
a little comparison of
the Raspberry Pi 3 B+
vs the Arduino,
say Arduino Uno,
generally what we used
in the last class.
So, you can have
some idea when you
should use one, when you
should use the other.
So, the Raspberry Pi
processor is faster.
It's 1.4 gigahertz
as compared to,
say 16 megahertz in the Arduino.
So, that's a lot faster,
it would sound like.
But remember, that
the Raspberry Pi is
running an operating system
and that slows things down.
Right? Because
the operating system is
a big block of code that
has to be executed.
Also there are other things
slow things down.
When you write in
the Raspberry Pi,
when you're controlling
the PNG usually using Python,
which means you got on
a Python interpreter and
there also slowing things down.
So, it's faster but is
deceptive that speed up.
It's not as good as
you would think.
The Raspberry Pi, the new one is
a 64-bit processor versus
eight bits for the Arduino.
So, that means numbers
are much bigger.
You get a lot better accuracy
with the Raspberry Pi.
So, if you need accuracy
in your numbers,
Raspberry Pi is
really the way to go,
because eight bits isn't
generally sufficient
for accurate numbers.
If you just doing control,
then maybe you don't need
accuracy in the numbers,
then Arduino is fine.
But Raspberry Pi, it really
does beat it out in
the accuracy area.
You can have
a bigger address space,
although, it doesn't use
that much address space,
but you can have a lot
more memory addresses, say,
or whatever type of
addresses you want to have
because you've got
16 bits represented with.
Raspberry Pi has more memory.
So, Arduino has 32 K flash,
2 K SRAM, 1 K EEPROM.
Raspberry Pi has
got a one gig SRAM,
and a micro SD, so,
you can have tons of flash
as much as you want,
and tons of non-volatile memory
as much as you can put in
a micro SD which is a lot
more than 32 K. So,
Raspberry Pi seems good
in this way, it's good.
It is good. Raspberry Pi has
lower IO voltage levels.
So, this is something
to remember when you're
making a system.
When you make a system, you
going to make sure that
the voltage levels are
compatible across the system.
So, say you've got
the micro-controller and is
wired to several different
integrated circuits,
several sensors,
actuators, and so on,
these things run at
a certain voltage level
and they should all be the same.
So, all five volts,
all 3.3, and generally 3.3
volts is good, reduces power.
Right? But, it can be causing
compatibility depending
on your sensors and
actuators and
other integrated circuits
that you're talking to.
So, you have to
have voltage level
switching components
between things.
So, say you're using
an Arduino is running at
five volts but
the sensor is 3.3 volts,
you might have to switch
the voltage levels
somehow, and vice versa.
If you've got a five volt sensor
connected to a Raspberry Pi,
you have to switch
the voltage levels,
and there's hardware
you can use to do that.
So, just be aware of that.
Now, one of the thing I'd
like to mention here,
is that the Raspberry Pi,
this isn't sort of
a document I think,
but this is something
that I've noticed.
It is sensitive to power.
Okay. When I say sensitive,
if you pull down,
draw too much power,
if it draws too much power,
if somebody draws
too much power from it,
it'll just reboot and mess it up.
Okay. Reboot will sometimes
mess up the flash,
mess up the SDRAM, I've had
that happen several times.
So, what I mean is, I've had
many times where I
take a Raspberry Pi,
and I powered from USB.
Maybe it's not getting that much,
depending on the USB jack,
you can only get
a certain amount of
current from some jacks.
Right? So then, if I plug into,
it'll just run the plane
Raspberry Pi fine.
But when I plug
into the USB port,
something that sucks
a lot of power,
then the Raspberry Pi
has to supply power to
that and it's not
getting sufficient power
from the USB port,
and it'll just reboot or
something right in the middle.
That has happened
to me many times
and I've had to re-install,
I don't know why this is,
but I've had to re-install
the operating system when
I drawn too much power.
It's sensitive to that, Arduinos
aren't sensitive to anything.
So, when I just have
control operations,
I will use an Arduino every
time over Raspberry Pi.
But, the best thing about
Raspberry Pi to me,
is that it has
an operating system on it.
Best and worse but,
let's say best.
So, when I need an operating
system I have to go with
Raspberry Pi because
Arduino won't do it.
So, Raspberry Pi can support
an operating system.
Now, we'll talk a
little bit more about
operating systems.
Everybody knows what
an operating system
is or has some
intuition about it.
Right? Windows 10, Mac OSX,
you know, these are
operating systems,
Linux, the best, Linux.
These are operating systems.
These things, on any desktop or
laptop is always running
an operating system.
So, when some program is
executing on your laptop
or your desktop,
it's not just the
program executing,
it is also the operating
system itself.
The operating system
is a block of
code and that is executing too.
Now, this is bad because
it slows things down.
You're not just executing
your simple code,
maybe you want a little
simple hello world code.
Right? But it's also got to
run the operating system and
its libraries and all
that junk slows it down.
But it's good because
the operating system handles
a lot of things that you
don't want to handle
as a programmer.
Okay. It gives you these
libraries, and the system calls.
These are library
functions make that do
things that simplify your life.
So, you don't have to worry
about all the details.
So, if you look at these two,
I have these two
little flowcharts.
The left side is the Arduino,
the right side is
the Raspberry Pi,
or something with
an operating system.
The left side, there's
an application that
you wrote in say C,
you compile it, and
that compiled code
runs directly on
the micro-controller
and there's nothing else.
It is your compiled code
running right on
the micro-controller. The end.
With an operating system,
there's your
application, you have to
compile code from that,
but it doesn't just run,
it calls library functions,
we call system calls,
which eventually acts as
the micro-controller features.
All that stuff in the middle is
all basically operating system.
Now, this is a very simplified
version of an operating system.
This is the idea,
the operating system code,
it enables a lot of things.
For instance, say you want
to print something on
an HDMI monitor, okay.
The operating system
will provide you with
library functions to deal
with that and drivers,
and it is very easy,
type 'print' and it'll just
appear on the HDMI monitor.
Now, in Arduino you
can't just do that.
How do you connect
to an HDMI Monitor?
Maybe there's a shield for it,
or some extra hardware
you can buy,
something like that, but it's
a more complicated thing.
With an operating
system, you just
do it because it's all built in.
So, operating systems are very
useful for complicated tasks.
For instance, I do
some vision stuff,
some computer vision stuff,
and that stuff I always
use a Raspberry PI for,
or something with
an operating system
because I don't want to do
the vision from scratch and write
vision algorithms in C directly.
I would rather use the libraries
that are built into
the operating system,
the OpenCv libraries or
something like that. Thank you.